Property definitions adjustment + inclusion of GNU Units definitions.units (#439)
Materials-Consortia/OPTIMADE: optimade.rst

  **REQUIRED keys:**

  - :field:`property-definition-version`: String.
    Specifies the minor version of the property definition format used.

>     The string MUST be a version string up to the minor version of an OPTIMADE standard that describe the format in which this property definition is expressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The string MUST be a version string up to the minor version of an OPTIMADE standard that describes the format in which this property definition is expressed.
```

>     The string MUST be a version string up to the minor version of an OPTIMADE standard that describes the format in which this property definition is expressed.

Reviewer 2: Related to my comment below, I'm fine with this being more of a `property-definition-tag` rather than a semantic version, in fact I would prefer it, provided we enumerate the definitions and versions with (semi-)persistent URLs, e.g.:

> 1.1 corresponds to the section "Entry listing info endpoints" in the v1.1 latest release of the OPTIMADE specification https://github.com/Materials-Consortia/OPTIMADE/blob/v1.1/optimade.rst#entry-listing-info-endpoints
> 1.2 corresponds to the section "Property definitions" in the v1.2 release of the OPTIMADE... etc.

This way, we could of course add patch version numbers too, but I think the allowed values should be restricted to one's we choose (i.e., where the property definitions actually changed!) rather than requiring clients to essentially do version negotiation with ranges to find the correct definition.

>     The string MUST be a version string up to the minor version of an OPTIMADE standard that describes the format in which this property definition is expressed.

Author: @vaitkus 
> why is this limit imposed at all, e.g. why should the `<PATCH>` part of the version number be removed? Note that `<MAJOR>`.`<MINOR>` is not considered a valid semantic version number since the `<PATCH> part is mandatory.

My thinking was that this field isn't versioning something, it is a declaration of the version of the property definition format that a specific property definition is written to adhere to. In that context I don't see how the PATCH version is useful. The property definitions should preferable be as stable as possible, so it would be a shame if including the PATCH version would pressure "keepers of property definitions" (ourselves included) to update them to not refer to outdated PATCH versions.

For dependency requirements it makes sense to refer to the specific PATCH version that the software was tested to work with, since it is possible for prior versions have bugs in the API features used. However, I don't see how a "specification bug" fixed in a PATCH release can impact the type of declaration intended here.

>     The string MUST be a version string up to the minor version of an OPTIMADE standard that describes the format in which this property definition is expressed.

Author: ```suggestion
    The string MUST be on the format "MAJOR.MINOR", referring to the version of the OPTIMADE standard that describes the format in which this property definition is expressed.
    The value must be at least :field-val:`1.2`.
    A client MUST disregard the property definition if the MAJOR version number specified in this field is unrecognized.
```

>     The string MUST be a version string up to the minor version of an OPTIMADE standard that describes the format in which this property definition is expressed.

Reviewer 3: @rartino Thank you for clarifying, it was the "version" part of the field name that slightly threw me off. I mainly offered the inclusion of the `<PATCH>` part for consistency, that is,  to always include the full semantic version number where possible so it can be parsed/compared using the same piece of code. In this specific scenario the patch level would still be included, but could be ignored during the comparison. However, I fully understand your point and consider my original question fully answered.

Getting back to @ml-evs comment, should we explicitly enumerate all of the available alternative definitions with the definitions and versions with (semi-)persistent URLs?

>     The string MUST be a version string up to the minor version of an OPTIMADE standard that describes the format in which this property definition is expressed.

Author: > Thank you for clarifying, it was the "version" part of the field name that slightly threw me off.

Right, the naming of the field is probably not ideal; the present one can be interpreted in many (incorrect) ways. I'm happy for suggestions on an improved name. Maybe there should be a 'format' in there at least?

> Getting back to @ml-evs comment, should we explicitly enumerate all of the available alternative definitions with the definitions and versions with (semi-)persistent URLs?

I tried to answer that in the thread below.

>     This allows future versions of this standard to allow implementations to keep definitions that adhere to older versions of the property definition format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This allows future versions of this standard to support implementations keeping definitions that adhere to older versions of the property definition format.
```
"allows ... to allow" sounds a bit clumsy to me.

Author: The intent with the word choice of 'allow' was to avoid this being read as a firm commitment of the standard to allow old versions indefinitely - it is up to future versions to say what old versions they allow. But perhaps the distinction is subtle enough to be meaningless. I'm not opposed to your version.

Reviewer: I admit I did not get the intent. Maybe the intent could be clearer if expressed in [RFC 2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt) requirement levels?

Author: IMO the RFC2119 levels should only be used for expressing what it means in terms of compliance for implementations (server or client) to behave in certain ways; i.e., things that can be validated. To also use these capitalized terms to express, e.g., future commitments of the standard organization just makes things confusing. I rather just make your proposed change than turn this into, e.g., as "future versions of this standard MAY allow implementations to keep definitions ...".

>     This allows future versions of this standard to support implementations keeping definitions that adhere to older versions of the property definition format.

Reviewer 2: Can you clarify the intention of this for me @rartino? Is this meant to be a get-out-jail-free card for those who want to keep reporting the `<=v1.1` `/info/structures` which has a significantly different format?

If the point is supporting "lazy" implementations (meant in the kindest way -- many major implementations have not updated at all since 1.0 in 2020) then perhaps this key could be optional and omitting it is equivalent to `1.0` or `1.1`? Obviously we don't want to make a habit of such practices but I think it would be justified here, although it feels a bit bad that the old style would become the default in some sense.

My only other worry with this sort of specification partitioning is that it perhaps needs to be more carefully explained at the start of the property definition section. A new client implementer might sit down and write a new client without realising the impact of this. I'm not suggesting we break it out into a separately versioned sub-specification, but perhaps at least persistent links back to the particular sections at their release would be helpful, especially as the layout of the spec also changes between versions? e.g., `v1.1 = https://github.com/Materials-Consortia/OPTIMADE/blob/v1.1.0/optimade.rst#entry-listing-info-endpoints`

I'll add a related note above in response to Antanus

Reviewer 2: I would also just add that this significantly complicates the OpenAPI schema ;) since server's can support multiple version definition formats simultaneously

Author: @ml-evs This field was only meant to refer to the present property definition format and future ones. I realize the example of `1.1` did not help, since the lowest possible value should be `1.2`. This can be clarified. (We may still want to add some form of that "get-out-of-jail-free card" for v1.1 if we want, but perhaps that is best to do after this PR is settled.)

Some reasons I think this is needed as a mandatory field:
- We want property definitions to be as stable as possible. This allows them to stay fixed for as long as future OPTIMADE specifications allows.
- We are already planning making these property definition available in various way out-of-context, i.e., not in an OPTIMADE respone. In that case there must be a format version number.

> A new client implementer might sit down and write a new client without realising the impact of this.

I get the worry regarding the very incompatible v1.1 format (which was not my intent to allow). Disregarding that, the impact is that a v1.3 client may run into v1.2 property definitions? As long as the property definition format is not changed in backwards-breaking ways, there should be no problems. And, with the property definitions and OPTIMADE version numbers synchronized, real problems should only be possible at a new MAJOR OPTIMADE release, which the client should be able to anticipate.

With that said, we probably should add to the text that clients MUST disregard property definition formats where this field refers to an unrecognized MAJOR version. That way we *can* break away the versioning of the property definition format from the OPTIMADE specification if we see a need.

Author: > I would also just add that this significantly complicates the OpenAPI schema ;) since server's can support multiple version definition formats simultaneously

Yes, the property definitions schema will need a case statement of the kind: `property-definition-version==1.2`: validate using schema for v1.2; `property-definition-version==1.3`: validate using schema for v1.3, and so on, for the full range of versions that every new OPTIMADE standard allows.

Reviewer 2: > Some reasons I think this is needed as a mandatory field:
> 
>     * We want property definitions to be as stable as possible. This allows them to stay fixed for as long as future OPTIMADE specifications allows.
> 
>     * We are already planning to make these property definitions available in various ways out-of-context, i.e., not in an OPTIMADE respone. In that case there must be a format version number.

I'm with you on this, again if we allowed 1.1 then that would break the new JSON Schema compatibility so I don't think its worth it. However, it might nice for us to clarify which part of `/info/<entry>` can be interpreted as JSON Schema, as it isn't all of it... 

> I get the worry regarding the very incompatible v1.1 format (which was not my intent to allow). Disregarding that, the impact is that a v1.3 client may run into v1.2 property definitions? As long as the property definition format is not changed in backwards-breaking ways, there should be no problems. And, with the property definitions and OPTIMADE version numbers synchronized, real problems should only be possible at a new MAJOR OPTIMADE release, which the client should be able to anticipate.

Understood, perhaps that can be a separate discussion. How do you feel about the idea of explicitly enumerated options for `property-definition-version` with links to the relevant parts of the specification?

Author: > if we allowed 1.1 then that would break the new JSON Schema compatibility so I don't think its worth it. 

Right - v1.1 compatibility should not be provided by setting `property-definition-version: 1.1`. What I was thinking is that, if we really want to, we could demote `x-optimade-property` to be optional and state that if it is not given, then the v1.1 format is expected. It is not great for simplifying the schemas though. 

So maybe we need to bite the bullet and require v1.2 property definitions to be OPTIMADE v1.2 compliant? It is not going to be a trivial effort to people to upgrade though, especially for people who have lots of their own properties. Do we need to add a way to just say "undefined"?

> However, it might nice for us to clarify which part of `/info/<entry>` can be interpreted as JSON Schema, as it isn't all of it...

Well, it is in the text that each property definition can be interpreted as JSON Schema. As I recall, one can also go one level up (the whole `property` array), but it ends there. Does this need to be clarified? I'm not sure it matters that much?

> How do you feel about the idea of explicitly enumerated options for `property-definition-version` with links to the relevant parts of the specification?

"Maybe"? Maybe I am misunderstanding something, but is this a decision we have to make now? Right now only "1.2" should allowed, right? For the future release of v1.3 it may depend on exactly how the format changes (maybe just adding support for a new optional JSON Schema field?...) But if it is different enough to be important, enumerating the options seems a good idea?

Reviewer 2: > "Maybe"? Maybe I am misunderstanding something, but is this a decision we have to make now? Right now only "1.2" should allowed, right? For the future release of v1.3 it may depend on exactly how the format changes (maybe just adding support for a new optional JSON Schema field?...) But if it is different enough to be important, enumerating the options seems a good idea?

Yes, agree that it is less important if we are not allowing "<=1.1" etc here. I guess it is also implied that you cannot use `1.3` or `2.0` in an otherwise `1.2` OPTIMADE implementation? Perhaps in the future we will need the enumeration just to be clear which section of the specification this is applying to, but I'm fine with this approach for now.

Author: > I guess it is also implied that you cannot use 1.3 or 2.0 in an otherwise 1.2 OPTIMADE implementation?

Hmm... I guess *strictly speaking* the present specification doesn't say that. It probably should. I'll add a quick fix.

    The version number string MUST NOT be prefixed by, e.g., "v".

>     Examples: :field-val:`1.1`.

Author: ```suggestion
```

  **REQUIRED keys:**

>   - :field:`property-definition-version`: String.

Author: ```suggestion
  - :field:`property-format`: String.
```

    Specifies the minor version of the property definition format used.

>     The string MUST be on the format "MAJOR.MINOR", referring to the version of the OPTIMADE standard that describes the format in which this property definition is expressed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The string MUST be of the format "MAJOR.MINOR", referring to the version of the OPTIMADE standard that describes the format in which this property definition is expressed.
```

    The version number string MUST NOT be prefixed by, e.g., "v".

>     The value MUST be at least :field-val:`1.2`.

Author: ```suggestion
    In implementations of the present version of the standard, the value MUST be exactly :field-val:`1.2`.
```

>     The value must be at least :field-val:`1.2`.

Author: ```suggestion
    The value MUST be at least :field-val:`1.2`.
```

>     A client MUST disregard the property definition if the MAJOR version number specified in this field is unrecognized.

Author: ```suggestion
    A client MUST disregard the property definition if the field is not a string on MAJOR.MINOR form or the MAJOR version number specified in the field is unrecognized.
```

>     A client MUST disregard the property definition if the field is not a string on MAJOR.MINOR form or the MAJOR version number specified in the field is unrecognized.

Author: ```suggestion
    A client MUST disregard the property definition if the field is not a string of the format MAJOR.MINOR or if the MAJOR version number is unrecognized.
```

>     This allows future versions of this standard to support implementations keeping definitions that adhere to older versions of the property definition format.

Author: ```suggestion
    This field allows future versions of this standard to support implementations keeping definitions that adhere to older versions of the property definition format.
```

>   - :field:`property-definition-version`: String.
>     Specifies the minor version of the property definition format used.
>     The string MUST be on the format "MAJOR.MINOR", referring to the version of the OPTIMADE standard that describes the format in which this property definition is expressed.
>     The value must be at least :field-val:`1.2`.
>     A client MUST disregard the property definition if the MAJOR version number specified in this field is unrecognized.
>     This field allows future versions of this standard to support implementations keeping definitions that adhere to older versions of the property definition format.
>     The version number string MUST NOT be prefixed by, e.g., "v".

Author: ```suggestion
  - :field:`property-definition-version`: String.
    Specifies the minor version of the property definition format used.
    The string MUST be on the format "MAJOR.MINOR", referring to the version of the OPTIMADE standard that describes the format in which this property definition is expressed.
    The version number string MUST NOT be prefixed by, e.g., "v".
    The value must be at least :field-val:`1.2`.
    A client MUST disregard the property definition if the MAJOR version number specified in this field is unrecognized.
    This field allows future versions of this standard to support implementations keeping definitions that adhere to older versions of the property definition format.
```
